1.Ivan the Terrible and His Son Ivan

This painting portrays the final moments of Ivan Jr., the only sane heir to the throne after he surrendered to death and accepted the fact that his death was at the hands of his father, Ivan the Terrible, who stands there terrified, holding his son's head in a futile attempt to stop the bloodshed.

Artist: Ilya Repin
Dimensions: 2m x 2.54m
Location: Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow
Period: Realism
Date: 1885
Material: Oil paint, Panel Painting

Additional information:
-Historians have found no evidence to explain why Evan Jr. was murdered, but this artwork cemented in people's minds the father's involvement in his son's death.
-This painting was vandalized twice, first in 1913 and then again in 2018.

2.Courage, Anxiety, and Despair- Watching the battle

Three women are depicted hiding behind a giant rock in this artwork.
Courage is the woman on the far left. She leans forward in a hurry, her gaze fixed on the battle. She has a dagger in her right hand, which she intends to use to defend herself.
Courage uses her left arm to keep Despair, the woman on the far right, at bay. Despair closes her eyes and sits sadly. Her posture suggests that she is withdrawing from the ferocity of the battle that the other two women are watching.
Anxiety lurks in the shadows between Courage and Despair. Anxiety's hand clutches her neck, as if trying to prevent her worry from leaving her slightly parted lips. She peers out from behind the rock, a worried expression on her face as she observes the battle.

Artist: James Sant
Dimensions: 121.9cm x 152.4cm
Location: Private Collection
Period: Classicism
Date: 1850
Material: Oil on Canvas

3.The Return of the Prodigal Son

The enormous depiction of the well-known prodigal son parable, an allegory of repentance and divine forgiveness, is represented in this dramatic painting.
The artist emphasized the key elements of the story's climax: the penitent son being welcomed back with open arms by his forgiving father; the rich clothes and ring symbolizing the errant son's restoration to his former position in the family; and the fatted calf being led to the slaughter for the celebratory feast.
Part of the charm of this artwork is in its human touches — the realism of the prodigal's dirty feet, the dog rushing up to welcome his master, and, perhaps most importantly, the ingenuous smile of the small kid leading the calf.

Artist: Bartolomé Esteban Murillo
Dimensions: 236.3cm x 261cm
Location: National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC.
Period: Baroque
Date: 1667 - 1670
Material: Oil on canvas
Additional Information:
-The Return of the Prodigal Son is among eight large canvases painted for the Church of Saint George in Seville, which serves as a hospice for the homeless and hungry.

4.The Martyrdom of Saint Christina

Christina found sincere faith in God, despite her father's and the rest of her people's beliefs. Her father tortured her mercilessly in an attempt to shatter her faith, but she kept her faith and withstood the suffering until she was executed by the governor.
The Martyrdom of Saint Christina was painted by Spanish painter Vincente Palmaroli more than 1,500 years after Christina's life and execution. He portrayed one of Christina's father's attempts to murder her: he ordered Christina to be thrown into a lake while being tied to a huge stone. Angels, on the other hand, emerged, freed her bonds, and kept her floating.

Artist: Vicente Palmaroli
Dimensions: 180cm x 310cm
Location: Prado Museum, Spain
Period: -
Date: 1895
Material: Oil on Canvas

5.Sisyphus
In Greek mythology, Sisyphus was the king of Ephyra (Corinth). Zeus was so irritated by Sisyphus' cunning and trickery that he sentenced him to an eternity of pushing a boulder uphill. The boulder would roll off as soon as he reached the top of the hill, and Sisyphus would have to push it back.
Titian portrays Sisyphus trudging on a rough slope in his painting "Sisyphus." He does not push the rock to the top of the hill, but rather holds it on his shoulders and head, causing his shoulders and head to bow forward under the weight of the rock.
This is a hellish atmosphere. Strange creatures inhabit the composition's lower-left corner, while fire and smoke fill the background. Sisyphus' feet appeared to be threatened by a serpent, as though the threat was pressuring him to hurry to the top of the hill.

Artist: Titian
Dimensions: 237cm x 216cm
Location: Prado Museum, Madrid, Spain
Period: Mannerism
Date: 1548 - 1549
Material: Oil on Canvas

6.Reading Devotions to Grandfather

Anker was interested in everyday activities from regular life. His painting conveys a message of service and respect between generations to viewers. In this artwork, the grandfather's expression is wise and deep. While his wrinkled, workingman's hands have rested in reverent repose, his long-trained vision is fixed somewhere beyond. A mortal man's diminishing strength is tenderly bolstered by his pure-faced grandson's kind determination. The two figures exude a peaceful sense of calm. While the kid respectfully accepts a duty of service, the grandfather, despite his frailty, continues to lead and teach the kid in prayer.

Artist: Albert Anker
Dimensions: 63cm x 92cm
Location: The Museum of Fine Arts Bern, Switzerland
Period: Realism
Date: 1893
Material: Oil on Canvas

7.Vale (Farewell)

Two females in a dimly lit area are depicted in this artwork. Background shadows almost entirely conceal the woman on the left, while the woman on the right is fully illuminated.
The woman on the left is dressed in a light-colored gown, while the woman on the right is dressed in a darker gown. The two women appear to be holding each other's hands at the exact moment they are about to let go. They are not facing each other but instead are turned away from each other, their heads bowed in sorrow.
The snake, for example, is a symbol of material temptation, to which the woman in dark dress has succumbed. Traditional characteristics such as compassion and self-sacrifice are represented by the woman in white, who has done her hardest to convince the other woman to value these virtues. The woman in the dark dress, on the other hand, has been enticed by the snake in the back, and instead of rejecting the material possessions she says goodbye to the woman in white—to virtue—and chooses material possessions.

Artist: Arthur Hacker
Dimensions: 153cm x 122.2cm
Location: Private Collection
Period: Victorian
Date: 1913
Material: Oil on Canvas
Additional Information:
According to Sotheby's website, this painting was created “almost in anticipation of the First World War, with the irrevocable changes that it caused.”

8.Jack the Ripper’s Bedroom

Through an open doorway, a dark, gloomy view of a bedroom is revealed. A wooden chair can be seen in the center, to the left of the open door, in what appears to be the hallway. Under the faded pink half-light coming through the horizontal slats of the blind that covers the window at the back of the room, a dressing table and chair are barely visible. The pieces of furniture are so blurry that it's possible that someone is sitting in the chair when there isn't anyone there. The bedroom at 6 Mornington Crescent is Sickert's personal quarters. His landlady had told Sickert that she suspected the former tenant of being the serial killer Jack the Ripper.

Artist: Walter Richard Sickert
Dimensions: 50.8cm x 40.7cm
Location: Manchester Art Gallery
Period: -
Date: 1906 - 1907
Material: Oil on Canvas
Additional Information:
Walter Sickert, known for his dark portraits and dimly lit domestic interiors, may have hid a dark secret for so long. It's been said that disturbing artworks like "Jack the Ripper's Bedroom" and "The Camden Town Murder" reveal a relation between the artist and the vile Whitechapel butcher, either as an accomplice or as the murderer personally.

9.Wanderer above the Sea of Fog

A man stands with his back to the viewer, clothed in a dark green overcoat and gripping a walking stick in his right hand for balance, on an extremely steep rock face.
As he gazes out over a landscape covered in a dense sea of fog, his hair is caught in the wind.
Several more ridges, similar to the one the wanderer stands on, peek out of the mist in the middle of the composition.
Mountains rise to the left in the distance, then level off into lowland plains in the east. The thick fog goes on eternally, blending in with the cloudy sky.

Artist: Casper David Friedrich
Dimensions: 94.8cm x 74.8cm
Location: Hamburger Kunsthalle in Hamburg, Germany
Period: Romanticism
Date: 1818
Material: Oil on Canvas
Additional Information:
The landscape is based on the Elbe Sandstone Mountains in Saxony and Bohemia. It is not an exact depiction of the landscape, rather an amalgamation of various parts. Friedrich would travel the mountains and create sketches. Then, back in the studio, he would construct his own interpretation of the landscape.

10.The Great Wave off Kanagawa

A painting with Mount Fuji as a background and small boats defying vicious blue waves off Kanagawa, the wave is about to strike the boats as if it were an enormous monster, one which seems to symbolize the irresistible force of nature and the weakness of human beings.

Artist: Katsushika Hokusai
Dimensions: 25.7cm x 37.8cm
Location: The Metropolitan Museum of Art (MET), New York, USA
Period: Edo
Date: 1831
Material: Color woodblock
Additional Informations:
-The Great Wave of Kanagawa is part of a series of prints titled Thirty-six views of Mount Fuji, which Hokusai made between 1830 and 1833.
-The Great Wave of Kanagawa by Hokusai was made around 1830, at a time when the rest of the world was becoming industrialized and the Japanese were concerned about foreign invasions.

11.Judith Slaying Holofernes

Artemisia Gentileschi portrays the moment that Holofernes is killed by the hand of the determined and powerful Judith (a story from the Bible).

Artist: Artemisia Gentileschi
Dimensions: 158.8cm x 125.5cm
Location: Museo Capodimonte, Naples, Italy
Period: Baroque
Date: 1612 - 1613
Material: Oil on Canvas
Additional Information:
Early feminist critics interpreted the painting as a form of visual revenge following Gentileschi's rape by Agostino Tassi in 1611.
